
These tools were primarily developed out of frustration at having no way of backing
up many years worth of genealogy work hosted on Ancestry.com and secondarily with
the lack of some basic tools on Ancestry.com.

On the first front, while a Gedcom can be downloaded there is no way to automatically
download all of the attached media items contributed by other users, or to download
the images of the primary records found in the many databases provided, unless you
purchase MacKiev FamilyTree Maker or RootsMagic and use a Windows or Apple based
operating system. And even then that does not include copies of text only database
records. And to complicate matters, there is a tremendous amount of information in
the online tree that is not exported in the Gedcom at all and certainly ought to be.

On the second front, while Ancestry.com is a wonderful resource for records research,
the site is incredibly lacking in the basic tools needed for properly maintaining an
online tree. The lack of basic descendant, ahnentafel, and pedigree reports after all
these years is mind boggling as is the inability to generate a fan chart. The lack
of tools or at least reports to help identify potential data issues in a tree... the
inability to centrally review and cleanup place names... all this from one of the
largest and most successful genealogy companies in the world makes no sense.

So these utilities can best be thought of as an attempt to provide a poor man's tree
sync for those of us who use Linux and Gramps.

The ancestry_extract.py utility handles all aspects of downloading the information
associated with the tree from Ancestry.com  The ancestry_refactor.py utility then
refactors the Gedcom file to reference the downloaded media and to fold in a lot of
the extracted information that is not included in the Ancestry.com generated Gedcom.
Information about both of these is included in separate readme files. The dump
script simply makes viewing the raw Gedcom data easier.

Note these were written and are used on a Fedora workstation with Python 3.7.5 and
Firefox 70. A virtual environment was setup, see requirements.txt for the required
package list.

A shout out to neRok00 for the approach of querying the media API to get the
authorized download link, it helped streamline things a bit as originally I
was going to use the browser to do it and then pull the file out of the downloads
directory.

Note these have only been used on the US version of the Ancestry.com site.
I am not sure if they will work with international versions, links probably
need to be edited. I did glance at the terms and conditions and my take is
that the use of these tools for management of my own genealogy work is
acceptable as there is nothing I am doing with the tools that I could not sit
and do manually if I choose and all of the information is in the tree already.
